DESCRIPTION:

rcv_scenarios.py runs rank-choice voting on a sweep of predefined scenarios.

The election winners are determined by Single Transferrable Voting:
votes that exceed the required threshold are transfered proportionally to 
their remaining share among votes with same first choice.

The scenarios (described below) represent a range of potential voter behavior in
communities with one or two sizeable racial minority populations.
The scenarios vary:
    - number of seats in the election
    - level of racial polarization
    - aggreement on how candidates are ranked



USER GUIDE:

The most basic (and intended) use of this simulation requires only changing the 
following input (located at the very bottom of the rcv_scenarios.py script):

    - cvap_vec = [percent white CVAP, 
                    percent minority1 CVAP, 
                    percent minority2 CVAP, 
                    percent other CVAP]
        (e.g. cvap_vec = [.60, .3, .15, .05])
    - crossover_vec = [percent white crossover, 
                        percent minority1 crossover, 
                        percent minority2 crossover, 
                        percent other crossover]
        (e.g. cvap_vec = [.60, .3, .15, .05])
    - num_votes = number of total votes cast in each simulation run
        (e.g. num_votes = 3000)
    - num_runs = number of times each election is simulated (note that
        to avoid redundancy, each deterministic scenario is only run once)
        (e.g. num_runs = 100)

A user may also generate new scenarios to add to the sweep (or contact us with
ideas for new scenarios).

It is not intended for the user to change any of the code that actually simulates
the election



SCENARIOS:

There are eight different scenarios in the simulation.  Each scenario is run for 
four different number of representative seats (3,5,7, and 9) for a total of 32 
different simulations.  The scenarios vary over two different levels of voting 
polarization and four different ways of ordering ('permuting') the candidates, 
giving a total of eight possible combinations.


Voting Polarization:
	- In 'Polarized' voting, voters prefer candidates of their racial group to 
	candidates of other racial groups.  That is, white voters prefer white candidates 
	to minority candidates and rank all white candidates before ranking any minority 
	candidates. Conversely, minority voter rank all minority candidates before 
	ranking any white candidates.
	- In 'Crossover' voting, some percent of voters from a given racial group (user-
	specified input values) will prefer a candidate of a different racial group, and
	the remaining voters vote 'Polarized', as above.  We use a simple model of 
	crossover voting in which a white 'Crossover' voter ranks a minority candidate 
	first and then alternates (i.e. ABABAB...) between white and minority candidates.
	Conversely, a minority 'Crossover' voter ranks a white candidate first and then
	alternates between minority and white candidates.

Candidate Permutations:
	- In 'Unanimous' voting, all voters agree on the same ranking of white candidates
	and the same ranking of minority candidates.  (How those candidates from 
	different racial groups are ranked compared to each other is determined by
	the voting polarization level described above).
	- In 'Non-white voters permute minority candidates' voting,  minority voters 
	don't agree on the ranking of minority candidates (the simulation chooses each minority
	voter's ranking of minority candidates at random)
	- In 'white voters permute all candidates' voting, white voters don't agree on the the
	ranking of white candidates OR on the ranking of minority candidates
	- In 'white and minority voters permute all candidates' voting, there is not agreement
	on the ranking of white or minority candidates among voters of any racial group. 



SIMPLIFYING ASSUMPTIONS:

There are arbitrarily many options and scenarios that can be simulated.  In order to 
simulate a reasonable number of representative scenarios we make some simplifying 
assumptions.
	- We assume that if there are n seats, then there are n white candidates and
	n minority candidates in the race.  This assumption allows for all possible
	numbers of minority (and white) winners between 0 and n.
	- We assume that every voter ranks every candidate.
	- We assume that a minority 'crossover' voter is one who prefers a white candidate
	rather than a minority candidate from a different racial group than their own.


